h1. rah_backup

p. Rah_backup keeps your important site safe from disastrous events. Rah_backup is an admin-side backup utility plugin for "Textpattern CMS":http://www.textpattern.com. Backs up both your files and databases with single click of button, and restores as easily. To support its features the plugin packs a clean, user-friendly interface that feels like it was part of Textpattern itself.

p. The plugin also supports modules of it's own. Modules can be used to extend rah_backup's functionality, from uploading the files to offsite location to email notifications and beyond. We ourselves offer couple extra modules, including "Dropbox":https://dropbox.com, FTP uploading and more.

h2. Requirements

p. Rah_backups' minimum requirements:

* Textpattern 4.5.0 or newer.
* PHP: Access to "exec":http://php.net/manual/en/function.exec.php function.
* Access to console applications from PHP:
** "MySQL":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.5/en/mysql.html
** "MySQLdump":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.1/en/mysqldump.html
** "TAR":http://www.gnu.org/software/tar/
** "Gzip":http://www.gzip.org/

p. If you are unsure wether your server meets the requirements, contact your server administrator or hosting service provider. Please keep in mind that not every access limited and inexpensive shared hosting packages will be able to support rah_backup.

h2. Installing

p. Rah_backup's installation starts with the simple three-steps all plugin normally use:

# Download plugin installation file and copy its the contents to clipboard.
# Paste the copied contents into the _Install plugin_ field at the top of the "Plugins panel":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=plugins, and click *Upload*. 
# You will be shown a preview of the plugin and its documentation. Click *Install* at the bottom of the screen.
# You will be returned to the plugin list when the plugin has been installed.
# Now activate the plugin by clicking its *No* link, which toggles the status to Yes and activates it.

p. If everything worked fine, the plugin is now installed and active. The plugin's admin-interface should be accessible under _Extensions/Backups_ area.

h2. Configuration

p. When you go to the plugin's panel for the first time, you will be greeted with a following message:

bq. Some settings need to be set before backups can be made. Start by defining mandatory settings at Preferences pane.

p. The message will direct you to "Advanced Preferences":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=Advanced_Preferences where you will be able to set set some mandatory settings.

h2. Preferences

p. Rah_backup offers number of preferences that can be used to configure the plugin. All settings can be found from "Advanced Preferences":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=Advanced_Preferences, organized under *Backups* section. Preferences allow defining paths to used command line application and set up backed up directories among other things. Following settings will be present.

h3. Absolute filesystem path to a directory used to store backups

p. Sets a directory used to store database dumps and TAR tapes. The path should be an absolute and point to an existing, empty directory that is both readable and writeable by PHP. Using relative paths is possible too. A path that starts with @./@ will be relative to Textpattern's installation directory (e.g. @./textpattern@).

p. A backup directory path might look something like this:

bc. ./../../site_backups

p. Which would create backups to a directory named *site_backups*, located two directories up from Textpattern's installation directory. This relative path would do the same as providing an absolute path to the same directory starting from the top:

bc. /users/some/example/path/to/site_backups

h3. Directories to backup (comma-separated)

p. Sets which directories are backed up and included in created TAR archives. Separate multiple paths with commas (@,@). As with backup directory, also this setting supports relative paths. A path that starts with @./@ will be relative to Textpattern's installation directory (e.g. @./textpattern@). On a single site setup, following would back up the directory containing Textpattern (i.e. @textpattern@ directory and @index.php@ file):

bc. ./../

h3. Files excluded from backups (comma-separated)

p. Sets files that are excluded from filesystem backups. This setting can be useful for keeping sensitive files secure incase a backup is lost or leaks due to compromised backup server or cloud file hosting account. Specified file paths are relative to directories specified in the above *Directories to backup* setting. Files that match a path name pattern will not be not be backed up. Multiple files can be separated with commas (@,@).

p. On a single site installation with the default *Directories to backup* setting of @./../@, following rule would exclude @config.php@, containing database credentials, from backups:

bc. textpattern/config.php

h3. Path to MySQL

p. Sets path to MySQL command line application. This setting and direct command line access MySQL is used to restore taken backups. This path should be a absolute filesystem path to mysql. If you are uncertain what the path to MySQL is, you should contact your server administrator or hosting service provider. They should be able to tell you the correct location.

p. Common paths to MySQL include, but are not limited to:

* @mysql@
* @/usr/bin/mysql@
* @/usr/local/bin/mysql@
* @/usr/mysql/bin/mysql@
* @C:\XAMPP\mysql\bin\mysql.exe@ (for XAMPP on Windows)
* @/Applications/MAMP/Library/bin/mysql@ (for MAMP on Mac)

p. On Linux you may also try to find the path by using @which mysql@ command via SSH or "rah_terminal":https://github.com/gocom/rah_terminal, or checking out "phpinfo":http://php.net/manual/en/function.phpinfo.php.

h3. Path to MySQLdump

p. Sets path to MySQLdump command line application. This setting and direct command line access MySQLdump is used to take backups of databases. This path should be a absolute filesystem path to mysqldump. If you are uncertain what the path to MySQLdump is, you should contact your server administrator or hosting service provider. They should be able to tell you the correct location.

p. Common paths to MySQLdump include, but are not limited to:

* @mysqldump@
* @/usr/bin/mysqldump@
* @/usr/local/bin/mysqldump@
* @/usr/mysql/bin/mysqldump@
* @C:\XAMPP\mysql\bin\mysqldump.exe@ (for XAMPP on Windows)
* @/Applications/MAMP/Library/bin/mysqldump@ (for MAMP on Mac)

p. On Linux you may also try to find the path by using @which mysqldump@ command via SSH or "rah_terminal":https://github.com/gocom/rah_terminal.

h3. Path to TAR

p. Sets path to TAR command line application. This setting and direct command line access TAR is used to take backups of directories and files. This path should be a absolute filesystem path to TAR. If you are uncertain what the location of TAR is, you should contact your server administrator or hosting service provider. They should be able to tell you the correct location.

p. Common paths to TAR include, but are not limited to:

* @tar@
* @/usr/bin/tar@
* @/usr/local/bin/tar@

p. On Linux you may also try to find the path by using @which tar@ command via SSH or "rah_terminal":https://github.com/gocom/rah_terminal.

h3. Path to Gzip

p. Sets path to gzip command line application. This setting and direct command line access gzip is used to compress created backups. This path should be a absolute filesystem path to gzip. If you are uncertain what the location of gzip is, you should contact your server administrator or hosting service provider. They should be able to tell you the correct location.

p. Common paths to Gzip include, but are not limited to:

* @gzip@
* @/usr/bin/gzip@
* @/usr/local/bin/gzip@

p. On Linux you may also try to find the path by using @which gzip@ command via SSH or "rah_terminal":https://github.com/gocom/rah_terminal.

h3. Ignore database tables (comma-separated)

p. Sets database tables that will not be included in database backups. Separate multiple tables with commas (@,@). Note that since the tables are not included in backups, they won't be restored, created or populated either with the backup when restoring. Ignored tables need to be managed otherwise, and re-created manually.

p. This setting can be used to exclude sensitive information or temporary data from a frequently taken backups. Following would exclude Textpattern's user accounts table containing email address and password hashes and visitor logs from backups:

bc. txp_users, txp_log

h3. Compress backups using Gzip?

p. If set to Yes, created backups are compressed using Gzip. Requires access to gzip application.

h3. Only keep the latest backup?

p. If set to Yes, only newest backup files are kept. Each time site is backed up, older backups are rewritten. If the setting is set to No, each time new set of backup files are created.

h3. Enable public callback access?

p. If set to Yes, backups can be created without needing to login to Textpattern with public callback URL. Each time the callback is accessed, a backup of the site is taken. The callback URL can be used with a "cron job":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron to do scheduled backups.

p. A callback URL would look like this:

bc. http://example.com/?rah_backup=key

p. Where @key@ is the value set in _Security key for the public callback_ field, and @http://example.com/@ is path to your Textpattern site.

h3. Security key for the public callback

p. A key for that is used to restrict unwanted access to the callback URL. This should be set as a long, strong value, containing any kind of numbers, characters and symbols possible. Required if public callback URL is enabled.